Hi, Mystery Recaps here.
Today, I'm going to explain an American drama
thriller film called “The thinning.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care!
It is 2039, and the Earth has become overpopulated.
The human race is on the verge of dying.
The United Nations declares that all nations
must annually cut their populations by 5%.
Following those orders, the United States
implements a rule called "The Thinning."
In the thinning, the students must attend
a standardized test every year.
In the test, whoever fails is executed by
injecting them with a drug.
The movie starts as Laina Michaels is tutoring
a high school kid named Simon.
Simon seems to have a hard time solving the
equations, so he asks Laina for something.
She takes out a box of lenses, and hands it
to him.
As soon as Simon wears them, he is able to
solve all the math problems.
Elsewhere, we are introduced to Edward Blake
Redding, the son of Texas governor, Dean Redding.
He sneaks out of his house at night and meets
his girlfriend, Ellie Harper, in his car.
Blake starts talking about the test they have
the next day.
Ellie is very nervous about it... but Blake
assures her that she will pass.
Just then, Blake’s father’s guard finds
them, and brings Blake back to Dean’s office.
Dean is disappointed in Blake for sneaking
out the night before such an important test.
He thinks that Ellie is a distraction for
Blake.
The following day, it is the day of the test.
Many students lined up outside the school.
They have to go through an intense security
check before entering.
Blake asks Laina for one of her study lenses...but
she is out of them.
Laina and her friend, Kellan Woods, stand
in the line to get inside.
One of the students had cheats written in
his arms.
When he is caught, he tries to run away.
The guards capture him.
No one has ever been able to escape the exams
or cheat on it.
Inside the school, Blake and Ellie hug for
the last time...before entering the exam hall,
and soon, the exam starts.
They have 2 hours to complete the test.
Everyone starts solving the problems on their
tablets.
Laina solves all of them without any problem
and is the first to complete it.
Her friend, Kellan, seems to be struggling.
When the exam is over, they immediately get
the results.
The teacher in the class is calling several
names who fail the exam.
Students are anxious...hoping this will be
over soon.
Those who fail are taken by the guards.
They cry, resist the guards, and some even
try to run away.
The guard would beat up those students who
resist.
Luckily, Laina, Kellan, and Blake pass.
However, at the last moment, Blake’s girlfriend,
Ellie, is called by the teacher, so the guards
take her away.
He quickly calls his father, and asks him
to help Ellie.
However, his father doesn’t agree... saying
that the law is the same for everyone.
Frustrated, he runs to save her himself.
He attacks the guards and asks Ellie to run
away...but to no avail.
No one would be able to escape.
Blake keeps trying to help Ellie, but there
is nothing else he could do.
It is now a year later, and 24 hours before
the thinning test starts.
It is Laina’s little sister Corrine’s
very first thinning test.
The doorbell rings.
It is Laina’s teacher, Ms. Birch, who has
been taking care of Laina and Corrine like
her own children since their mother's death.
She tries to calm Laina down...because tomorrow
is Corrine's first test and Laina worries
about her sister; but she assures them that
everything will be fine.
Meanwhile, Blake records a video in his room.
He intends to write all wrong answers in the
test to teach his father a lesson.
Cut to the day of the test...
Laina drops Corrine to her kindergarten.
In Corrine's class, they are presented with
a video animation...showing the current state
of the Earth, so all nations must annually
cut their populations by 5%.
Some countries implemented rules like allowing
couples to have only one child.
While others executed the older generation.
In America, however, the government decided
to keep only the smartest ones and execute
the others
These children are no exception.
The children’s test then starts.
Their teacher is saddened because some of
the children are going to be executed.
Thankfully, Corrine passes the test.
Laina and Kellan enter the school for their
test as well.
The test starts and finishes in no time.
Meanwhile, governor Dean finds Blakes’s
recording and is agitated.
He calls the test manager, Mason King, and
orders him to pass Blake regardless of his
score
Mason switches his score with Laina, making
Laina fail.
The test results are in..but to everyone’s
surprise, Laina’s name is called too.
She has failed the test.
Ms Birch stops the guard as they take her....claiming
that she is her best student and there must
be something wrong with the system.
However, the results are final and cannot
be changed.
She hands Laina a keycard so she can unlock
the doors and escape.
Blake is surprised to not have failed.
The students who pass, arrive at a school
party to celebrate their results.
Elsewhere, Dean is giving a speech as the
governor...to declare his presidency for the
president of the United States.
He boasts about their education system.
As a result of their system, they manage to
be the best in education among 196 countries;
the crime rate is decreasing by 26%.
Blake listens to his father’s speech while
at the party...then sneaks out of it.
He sneaks into the hallway and beats one of
the guards.
He then goes into the control room.
Meanwhile, Laina and the students who have
failed...are taken into a room and put against
a wall
They are forced to remove all of their clothing
for decontamination.
Then, Laina and the others are taken to a
room where the guards are about to execute
them by lethal injection.
Suddenly, Blake cuts the electricity off...making
the whole school go dark.
Taking this chance, the students who are about
to be executed, free themselves and try to
run away.
But none of them succeeds, except for Laina.
She uses the keycard her teacher had given
her, and gets out of the room.
Soon after, Mason comes to the room and asks
for a head count.
They find out that Laina is missing ,and start
looking for her.
Blake finds Lana and helps her fighting one
of the guards.
While talking, they realize that something
was done to Blake and Laina’s results.
They both enter into a vent and hide; they
follow the network cables to go to the server
room where they can look at the results through
the computer.
Meanwhile, the school is still in complete
lockdown due to the power failure.
The news gets outside and is being broadcasted
all over the state.
The parents outside are getting concerned.
Governor Dean calls Mason to ask him about
the situation.
Meanwhile, the vents below Blake breaks, making
him fall into the swimming pool below.
Laina jumps after him.
She brings him out of the water, but he is
not breathing.
Laina gives him CPR and somehow manages to
save him.
Blake and Laina change to some clothes they
find in the pool’s lockers.
They then continue to go through the vents
and reach the server room, but a guard stands
in front of the door.
Moreover, Laina’s keycard falls down the
vent in front of the guard.
He doesn’t notice the card but now she has
to get it back somehow.
Her plan is to go to the science lab and join
a string with a magnet to fish the key through
the vent, so they head down to the lab to
retrieve the equipment needed.
However, in the lab, they make a slight noise
causing the guard to approach the lab.
They quickly try to escape; Laina manages
to get back to the vents but Blake is stuck
hiding in the lab.
Laina moves through it to fish the keys.
She successfully manages to get it up halfway,
when suddenly...a guard catches it.
But it turns out that it is Blake disguising
as the guard.
He had beaten the guard and put his clothes
on.
Shortly, the guard the two of them had attacked
earlier tells Mason about them.
He reveals that Laina had a keycard with her.
Mason gathers all the teachers together...suspecting
that someone has given it to their students.
When Ms Birch is in the room with other teachers,
she flirts with another teacher and manages
to take his key card.
Mason continues checking the teachers for
their keycards and ID cards.
Birch saves herself by showing them the card.
Since the other teacher doesn’t have his,
Mason threatens him to tell them where Laina
is.
However, he insists he doesn’t know anything
as Mason beats him.
Laina finally gets to the Server room.
She opens the computer using the key card
but Mason has it protected with a password.
She then texts Kellan who is good at hacking
to provide her with the access.
After some time, Kellan receives Laina’s
text.
He helps her to get through Mason’s computer.
Laina then searches for her results and finds
out she got 98% but still failed, while Blake
got 15% and passed.
She does more research and finds out...that
Ellie too had gotten 88% and failed, while
others who had less marks than her passed.
Laina realizes that the grading system is
rigged, and the governor has been failing
whoever he wishes to.
Laina sends a file with the rigged grades
to Kellan.
But soon, the power is back on, and Mason
sees that she is in the server room.
Laina realizes this and runs out.
However, Mason catches her almost immediately.
Blake, on the other hand, is still in disguise.
He is with the students who have failed...
He orders the guard to take them to the recreational
hall with the other students.
But the guard refuses, so they get into a
fight.
The guards restrain him and find out his identity.
Just then, Kellan receives Laina’s message
and is surprised to see the rigged results.
Kellan is friends with a news anchor, so he
quickly emails it to the news channel.
The reports broadcast the news showing the
receipts of the altercation in the results.
After the photos are leaked, the governor
is called by his party head who threatens
to take his presidential candidacy back.
Unwilling to let that happen, Dean Redding
throws all the accusations at Mason, and pretends
that he is innocent.
He tries to prove this, so he has no choice
but to execute all of those who actually failed,
including his own son, Blake.
At the school, Mason and the guards take Laina
to the thinning room to execute her and the
others
Blake is there too.
Mason calls Dean to ask him if they should
proceed to execute the students.
But Dean tells him to stop.
He wants the students who have actually failed
to be executed, including his own son.
The guards free Laina and other students who
have actually passed the test.
Laina kisses Blake, but the guards take him
and the rest who have failed.
They execute them by injecting them with a
drug.
As the lockdown ends, Laina is reunited with
her younger sister, Corrine, and Ms. Birch.
Cut to a few hours later, we see the bodies
of the executed students being taken underground
in an elevator.
The students start to move...revealing that
the drug they were injected to be a sleeping
drug
They stop when they reach a factory-like place.
It is filled with goods being produced by
the tech company Assuru Global.
Many people work in the factory.
Just then, Blake is surprised to notice that
one of them is actually Ellie, his girlfriend.
This indicates that the students who are supposed
to be executed are actually brought underground
to work as slaves for a multi-million company.
This was all planned by the government as
a strategy to get free labour.